 Wash drumsticks or fillets thoroughly under running water. Drain off the water completely. You can wipe them off with disposable kitchen tissues to remove extra moisture.
2. Make 2 to 3 deep incisions into the meat to get marinated well from inside.
3. Add turmeric, red chili powder, salt and lemon juice and rub the drumsticks for about 3 to 4 minutes. It works great to tenderize the meat. Set this aside for at least 15 to 20 minutes
sprinkling of spice powders to marinate for tandoori chicken recipe
4. Meanwhile you can prepare the other ingredients for second marination.
ingredients to marinate meat for tandoori chicken
5. Mix all the ingredients and marinate the drumsticks. Cover and refrigerate for at least 6 to 8 hours.
marination with yogurt for tandoori chicken recipe
6. Preheat the oven at 220 C for at least 15 minutes.
7. Prepare basting oil, add 1 tsp oil to a bowl and stir in little red chili powder. Mix and set aside. You can skip using red chili powder if you are using food color or ready made tandoori masala.
make basting oil for grilled chicken
8. Prepare the baking tray with foil and grease it.
9. Pick up the drumstick and hold it for a while for it to drip off the extra marination in the bowl. Place it on the tray. Place all the drumsticks.
10. Now with a basting brush apply, the red chili oil over the drumsticks and place the tray in the oven and bake.
red chili oil basting while grilling tandoori chicken in oven
11. Mix the chili oil with one tsp of the left over marination.
12. After 15 minutes, bring the tray out of the oven and baste it with the chili oil and put it back to the oven and bake for another 5 minutes.
13. Bring it out again and flip the drumstick to the other side and lightly baste with the oil again. Or you can drizzle butter if you wish without using the chili oil.
14. Bake it for about 10 minutes again. These timings work well for me, but keep an eye always to prevent overcooking.
grilling in oven to make tandoori chicken indian recipe